Hello everyone and welcome back to EnglishPod. My name is Marco. I'm Erica and today we have
a great intermediate lesson for you. That's right. We've got some excellent real English for you
all about cleaning the house. Cleaning the house. That's a real life situation so we're going to
give you real English. Exactly. So in today's lesson we're going to look at language about cleaning
the house. We're also going to learn a few phrases that you can use if you want to ask someone
for help and maybe if you're a little bit lazy like me a phrase or two to avoid doing work.
Okay well let's get started then with our vocabulary preview.
vocabulary preview. All right great. We have two great words for you today. Erica why don't you tell
us the first one? The first word is such a mess. Such a mess. Such a mess. So when something is a
mess it's dirty. Yeah or things are everywhere. It's organized. Yeah so you know you have your
clothes on the floor and your shoes. Okay so that sounds a lot like my desk out there. Your shoes
on your desk. Yeah I've seen that. I've been wanting to ask you about that. Okay such a mess
really really dirty. Okay now let's take a look at our second word chores. Chores. Chores. Chores.
Chores is a really common word for things you have to do around the house. Like for example laundry
or making the bed or when you have to take out the garbage. Those are all examples of chores.
Chores yeah. I guess everyone can remember when they were kids they had chores to do. Yeah when I
was a kid it was my chore to chop wood. Chop wood. Yeah that's a great chore in playing with an
axe. Maybe you're a boy but for a girl it was not so great. Ah that's why you're so strong
in fit. All right so let's listen to our dialogue for the first time. It's gonna be kind of fast
but don't worry if you miss something because it will explain all of the important language afterwards.
Honey the house is such a mess. I need you to help me tidy up a bit. My boss and her husband
are coming over for dinner and the house needs to be spotless. I'm in the middle of something
right now. I'll be there in a second. This can't wait I need your help now. All right
I'm coming. Okay here's a list of chores we need to get done. I'll do the dishes and get
all the groceries for tonight. You can sweep them up the floors. Oh and the furniture needs to be
dusted. You know what I have to pick something up in the mall so why don't you clean the floors
and I'll go to the supermarket and get all the groceries. Sure that's fine. Here's the list of all
the things you need to get. Don't forget anything and can you pick up a bottle of wine on your way home?
Hey honey I'm back. Wow the house looks really good. Great can you set the table?
Just a sec. I'm just going to vacuum this rug well fast. Wait don't turn it on
So my god marker what happened there? An explosion. We love a good explosion here at English
class. We're going to give you as many explosions as possible. Okay so let's take a look at our
language takeaway. Language takeaway. So language takeaway is the part of our lesson where we teach you
what we think are some really important words that are found in the dialogue. Exactly and we have
three really important words in our dialogue today so let's start with the first one.
Tidy up. Tidy up. So to tidy up means to put things in their correct spot. Right so put the shoes
on the floor. Take those shoes off my desk. Exactly so tidy up. Organize things a little bit. Yeah put
things away. Okay let's take a look at our second word now. Spotless. Spotless. Spotless. Spotless.
So when you want something to be spotless you want it to be really clean really clean not a spot
of dirt on it. Like your desk. Exactly my desk is spotless. My desk is not spotless.
All right great word. Now let's take a look at our last word for language takeaway. Mall.
Mall. Mall. M-A-L-L. Mall. Yeah it's a strange sounding word.
It is a little bit funny sounding but it basically means a large building with many shops inside.
Many different stores inside. Right now in British English you would say shopping centers.
I think that's a little bit more common but in American English we say mall. Great so now it's time
in our show to look at putting it together. Putting it together. Okay so in putting it together
we take a word from the dialogue and we show you how to use this word in real English. So we give
you a couple of examples of how this particular word can be used. Exactly so the word that we have
for today is groceries. Groceries. Groceries. Groceries. Erica why don't you tell us what groceries are
all about. So groceries are all of the food items that you need to buy at the supermarket so like
your bread and milk and meat and vegetables. Exactly those are all groceries. Okay so let's listen
to some examples on how we use this phrase. Example 1. There's no milk can you go to the grocery store?
Example 2. Here's the grocery list. I need all of these things so that I can cook dinner tonight.
Don't forget anything. Example 3. I hate grocery shopping. I can never find what I'm looking for.
Okay great examples. We heard some really interesting combinations right? Yeah we heard grocery
store which is where you buy your groceries. Exactly. Grocery shopping. Buying all your groceries.
And grocery list. Where you have all the items that you need to buy. A list of everything you need to buy.
Exactly. You know grocery store I think this is quite a common word in Canada. Probably North America.
Yeah do you say grocery store in America? Well if it's a small one. Really so like a small store.
In Canada I say grocery store for even like a supermarket. Really? Yeah. I guess well I would say
supermarket for a large one and grocery store for a little corner shop. All of these little
differences in American and Canadian English. Okay I think it's time for us to listen to our
dialogue another time. This time it'll be a little bit slower. Honey the house is such a mess. I need
you to help me tidy up a bit. My boss and her husband are coming over for dinner and the house
needs to be spotless. I'm in the middle of something right now. I'll be there in a second.
This can't wait. I need your help now. All right all right. I'm coming.
Okay here's a list of chores we need to get done. I'll do the dishes and get all the groceries
for tonight. You can sweep and mop the floors. Oh and the furniture needs to be dusted.
You know what? I have to pick something up at the mall. So why don't you clean the floors
and I'll go to the supermarket and get all the groceries. Sure that's fine. Here's the list of
all the things you need to get. Don't forget anything and can you pick up a bottle of wine on your
way home. Hey honey I'm back. Wow the house looks really good. Great. Can you set the table?
Just a sec. I'm just gonna vacuum this rug real fast. Wait don't turn it on.
Okay great stuff love hearing that explosion that vacuum just is a bomb. Yeah in this dialogue
there was some really interesting language that you can use if you don't want to do any chores
in the house. Exactly so it's time now for Fluency Builder. Fluency Builder. You know fluency
builder is a part of our show that we use to take a common phrase or a word that you already know
and show you how to express that idea more fluently and more naturally. Exactly so let's take a look
at our first idea that we want to explain. Let's say you're watching TV like the woman in this
dialogue and your husband wants you to help him do the chores and you say no I'm busy. Right or
I'm doing something. Those are two great expressions but we heard something a little bit different
in the dialogue. I'm in the middle of something right now. I'm in the middle of something right now.
Yeah that phrase is great it means she's busy she's doing something. Yeah I'm in the middle of
something. Yeah and so Marco you can tell us about our next phrase. Okay well now suppose that
you want to say you'll be there soon. You might say I'll be there soon or I'm coming
exactly but in our dialogue we heard something a little bit different. Let's listen. I'll be there
in a second. I'll be there in a second. So this is a more natural way of saying I'll be there
very soon. Yeah you know what I think I use this phrase almost every day I'll be there in a
second. Yeah yeah it's really common. Yeah it means I'll be there really fast. Yes.
Okay so our final item today in Fluency Builder is a great phrase that helps you say the idea
could you or would you? Right or can you? Yeah so can you sweep the floor could you sweep the floor?
But in the dialogue we heard something that's a little bit different.
Why don't you clean the floors and I'll code the supermarket. Why don't you clean the floors and
I'll code the supermarket. Great so this is more natural and it's giving a suggestion. Yeah it's
sort of a polite way of asking someone to clean the floors. Right it's a really good and polite way
of saying it. Yeah I would agree on that. This was Fluency Builder. Now we are ready to listen to our
dialogue again at its normal speed. And this time you'll understand a lot better.
Honey the house is such a mess. I need you to help me tidy up a bit. My boss and her husband are
coming over for dinner and the house needs to be spotless. I'm in the middle of something right now.
I'll be there in a second. This can't wait. I need your help now. All right. All right I'm coming.
Okay here's a list of chores we need to get done. I'll do the dishes and get all the groceries
for tonight. You can sweep and mop the floors. Oh and the furniture needs to be dusted.
You know what? I have to pick something up in the mall so why don't you clean the floors
and I'll go to the supermarket and get all the groceries. Sure that's fine. Here's the list of
all the things you need to get. Don't forget anything and can you pick up a bottle of wine on your
way home? Hey honey I'm back. Wow the house looks really good. Great. Can you set the table?
Just a sec. I'm just going to vacuum this rug wheel fast. Wait don't turn it on.
Um has has this ever happened to you? Has your vacuum cleaner exploded in your house?
Well not a big explosion like this one. Not so dramatically and not so dramatically but
I've had this happen to me before yeah and dust everywhere and it's just it's a mess you don't
want to have. You know this word vacuum is really a very American word. Yeah vacuum vacuum the rug
vacuum the carpet. Yeah vacuum cleaner. In the UK what did they say? Hoover. Hoover. Yeah Hoover. Hoover
the rug. Hoover the rug which is interesting because it's actually a brand. Yeah so I guess it's
kind of like American English you say pass me a Kleenex. Oh that's true. That would be like a tissue.
Yeah so I guess they say Hoover the rug or Hoover the house. Yeah wow you know I really love
these small differences in meaning that we have between American English and British English.
Yeah it's it's fun. Okay well another interesting thing about this is that the man was doing
the house work. I know he's a house husband. Yeah so he's the one doing all the chores in the house.
Yeah that's well that's the new trend now now it's more popular for men to stay home and take care
of the babies and clean the house. Yeah like when I was growing up my dad would take out the garbage
and that was it. My mom had to do everything else but now I think it's becoming a lot more common
in especially in North America for the household chores to be divided between the man and the wife
equally. Yeah I think it's fair. It's me too. Yeah you'd make a good husband Marko. That's what they
say but they haven't married me yet. Okay all right well we're out of time folks be sure to log
on to our community website and you can leave all your comments and maybe other house husbands
out there can give us their feedback on what they think about this. Yeah so check us out at
englishpod.com and thanks for listening today everyone until next time this is Marco and Erica saying
bye. Good bye.